
# Maple CPI <a href='https://paese.shinyapps.io/maple_cpi/'><img src='' align="right" height="138.5" /></a>

## About the app

**Maple CPI** is a tool developed to allow people from different
backgrounds to develop a better understanding to the currrent state of
the economy in Canada, allowing generic users to grasp the information
on their bills rising, while also being a tool for advanced users to
build analysis, develop charts and export information related to the
Canadian Consumer Price Index (CPI). The tool name is derived from a
Canadian symbol, a Maple leaf, and the acronym for the main inflation
index, the CPI.

## Links

- Live version: [Maple CPI - Live
  app](https://paese.shinyapps.io/maple_cpi/)
  <!-- + RStudio cloud: [Maple CPI - RStudio cloud](https://rstudio.cloud/project/123456) -->
- GitHub: [Maple CPI - Github](https://github.com/paeselhz/maple_cpi)

## Highlights

In the past couple of months, inflation has been plaguing the bills of
almost every citizen around the world, being it related to supply chain
constraints or the rise of inflation rates by almost every central bank,
it is common understanding that living got more expensive. Here in
Canada the Statistics Canada does a great job of collecting information
about the pricing level for almost 500 products every month, and
compiling it into a single indicator used to evaluate the state of
inflation throughout the country, mostly known as CPI (Consumer Price
Index).

This monthly data however allows us to explore differences on the
development (growth and contraction) of inflation by checking different
regionalities, or different major groups of products, and compare what
are the main culprits for the present situation of the Canadian economy.

The tool follow a progressive step allowing the user to start from
simple visualizations for the timeseries of Canadian inflation and it’s
components, drilling down to check on a province level how each major
group behaves, moving to more in-depth analysis of a decomposition of
the CPI index by it’s four major groups, and finishing with a
“simulation” tab, to explore different inflation scenarios.

### Timeseries

### Group Analysis

### Interest Rates

### Simulation
